docs: improve discoverability of wildcard parameters (#2451)
expressjs/expressjs.com: src/content/docs/en/5x/guide/routing.mdx

</Alert>

### Wildcards

Wildcards match any path after a prefix. Like other route parameters they must have a name, but they are captured as an array of path segments instead of a string.

```js
app.get('/files/*filepath', (req, res) => {
  // GET /files/images/logo.png
  console.dir(req.params.filepath);
  // => [ 'images', 'logo.png' ]
  res.send(`File: ${req.params.filepath.join('/')}`);
});
```

```ts
import { type Request, type Response } from 'express';

app.get('/files/*filepath', (req: Request<{ filepath: string[] }>, res: Response) => {
  // GET /files/images/logo.png
  console.dir(req.params.filepath);
  // => [ 'images', 'logo.png' ]
  res.send(`File: ${req.params.filepath.join('/')}`);
});
```

To also match the root path, wrap the wildcard in braces:

```js
// Matches / , /foo , /foo/bar , etc.
app.get('/{*splat}', (req, res) => {

>   // GET / => req.params.splat = []

Reviewer: Is this correct? In this case there should be no `"splat"` in `req.params`. I tested it some time ago in #2090.

Reviewer 2: yep, good catch

});
```

<Alert type="info">

> Wildcard parameters (`*`) are only supported in Express 5. Unlike named parameters (`:`), they capture one or more path segments and expose them as an array in `req.params`. See the [Wildcards](#wildcards) section above or the [migration guide](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/migrating-5/#path-route-matching-syntax) for details and examples.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need to say "Express 5" anymore. The guides are versioned, so that redundancy isn't necessary

Author: Thanks for the feedback! I've simplified the wording by removing the redundant "Express 5" reference from the versioned guides while keeping the migration guide reference.

});
```

> Wildcard parameters (`*`) are also supported in Express 5. Unlike named parameters (`:`), they capture one or more path segments and expose them as an array in `req.params`. See the [Wildcards](#wildcards) section above for details and examples.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<Alert type="info">
Wildcard parameters (`*`) are only supports in Express 5. Unlike named parameters (`:`), they capture one or more path segments and expose them as an array in `req.params`. See the [Wildcards](#wildcards) section above or [migration guide](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/migrating-5/#path-route-matching-syntax) for details and examples.
<Alert>
```

Add abouve note on page: https://expressjs.com/en/5x/api/request/#reqparams

Some extra, but not necessary. Add alert not on `4x` doc https://expressjs.com/en/4x/api/request/#reqparams
```
<Alert type="alert">
Wildcard parameters (`*`) are introduced in Express 5. Unlike named parameters (`:`), they capture one or more path segments and expose them as an array in `req.params`. See the [migration guide to 5x](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/migrating-5/#path-route-matching-syntax) for details.
<Alert>
```

Author: Thanks for the review!

I've addressed the requested changes by:
- Wrapping the wildcard parameter note in an `Alert` component.
- Adding the wildcard parameter note to the Express 5 `req.params` documentation with a link to the migration guide.
- Adding the suggested notice to the Express 4 `req.params` documentation.

Please let me know if there are any further changes or improvements you'd like me to make. Thanks!

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this wording is clear. In 4.x there are wildcard parameters, but with no explicit names. These can still be accessed from `req.params` (so I'd argue that they are parameters) under integer keys (in most cases there's just one unnamed parameter so - `req.params[0]`). In 4.x wildcards return strings instead of `string[]` like in 5.x.

Author: Thanks for pointing that out! That's a good clarification. I'll update the wording to distinguish the Express 4 behavior (`req.params[0]` returning a string) from the named wildcard parameters introduced in Express 5.

Reviewer 3: Yes, I think this is best fit.
```
<Alert type="info">
In Express 4, wildcards (`*`) are unnamed, whereas in Express 5, wildcards must be explicitly named (e.g., `/*splat`). Please check the [migration guide to 5.x](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/migrating-5/#path-route-matching-syntax) before upgrading your routes.
</Alert>
```

Author: Thanks! I've updated the wording accordingly.

Author: Kindly tell if anything else is required. Thanks

});
```

> The examples above behave the same regardless of the [`strict routing` setting](/api/application/#application-settings). As with any other route, that setting only changes whether a trailing slash (such as `/order/`) is treated as a different path.

Reviewer: This is not really clear to me - is it about the _trailing slash (such as `/order/`)_ in path or the requested URL[^1]. It's confusing also because on one hand the examples show that **with or without** strict routing the trailing `/` (in path) makes a difference and on the other hand the second sentence of this paragraph says that it's what strict routing affects.

[^1]: I know how this works, but it's not explained well and confusing for anyone who does not already know it.
